So in the last lecture  we took a look at the structure of the navigation menu that WordPress generates. And as you
can see for each item WordPress adds some useful classes like the object type if it's a page or a post
and if it has children and the ID of the item and stuff like that.
So let's now uncomment the styles.
And I just want to give you some tips when styling these menus.
So when you're styling menu items always use the ">" sign here in your CSS which is
the direct child.
And that's because if you have submenus and you don't use the direct child you'll end up styling the
submenu children and probably you don't need that.
So as you can see here we have a submenu and the A tag here is definitely gonna be styled differently
than the submenu A tag.
So in my styles I always use the direct child sign in order to not mess with the submenu children.
Another thing to style the submenus
I use absolute positioning. So if the LI of the menu item that has children has a class called "open"
the submenu will have "display : block" and it will be absolutely positioned in order to look like this.
And the reason why I use the class "open" to display block for the submenu I know you might be thinking
this could be done using CSS. So using CSS when you hover in the parent menu item
you can target the child submenu and display block on using CSS.
But the reason I use this class is that I wanted to do it with JavaScript because it will help us and
the accessibility section that we will talk about later.
So let's now write this JavaScript that will add and remove this class on hover.
So I'm gonna go to my folder and in the "js" in the "assets" in the "src". I'm gonna add in the
"components" folder navigation.js.
And then include it in the bundle.
And then inside navigation.js let's "import $ from 'jquery'".
So let's take a look at our classes that we need to target. So we have the menu is wrapped in a "c-navigation"
class and then a menu item will have a class of "menu-item".
But we need to target only menu items that has children.
So we will target "menu-item-has-children" class.
So let's do that. Let's create an event listener on the "c-navigation" and we need to do event delegation
here.
So I'm gonna use the "on('mouseenter')".
And we need to target ".menu-item-has-children". So we could have done that directly without
the event delegation and then remove this.
But I intended to do this way and you will know why I did it this way later.
So let's add the third argument here which is the callback function which takes the event as an argument.
So this is an arrow function which is new in ES6.
And if you use arrow function as callback for an event you can't use this instead you can use "(e)" which
is the event and then the current target.
And this will be the current target which is this class  that we hovered on.
So if you hover on menu item with this class we need to "addClass('open')". And then on "mouseleave" we need to
remove the class "open". So let's actually copy this
and paste it. And instead of "mouseenter" we'll now type "mouseleave". And instead of "addClass", "removeClass".
So let's see now and as you can see it's working.
Setting the class "open"
when we hover on the item and when we hover  away it removes the class "open". So let's take a look at the finished menu
here and let's see what else we can do
now. So now we can add these arrow icons for menu items that have children. And also for children that
have subchildren
we should add another icon which would point to the right.
So first create a child menu with submenus. So
let's do this and save.
And now we'll have this child menu will have submenus.
So in order to add these icons WordPress provides filters in order to filter each nevigation
menu title.
So let's go to navigation.php.
Let's add this filter. So let's create a function called, of course prefix, and then let's call it "dropdown_
icon". This filter receives four parameters, the $title which is the navigation label that we need
to filter, and the $item. And the $item is, remember we mentioned that the navigation menu item is a post
object. So this $item is basically the post object that will contain all the information about this
post
or this menu item which is the post. And the third one is $args and the $args are the arguments that we
paste
in the wp_nav_menu(), so it will contain the "theme location". And finally the $depth. And the $depth
is how deep this menu item is.
So.
So this is the first level.
It has depth of zero.
And this one this first submenu have a depth of one and this one a depth of two.
And so on.
All right. So let's now hook this filter. So "add_filter" and it's called "nav_menu_item_title" and
give it a function. And since we are having arguments here
so we should define how many arguments we have. So 4. And the priority is default priority which is 10.
So this filter will run for all your menus and all your menu items.
So it will run for this menu.
It will filter this menu item and this one and this one and this one.
And the children and same if we have another menu.
So if you have another menu somewhere in the footer for example this filter will also run.
But in some cases maybe we need to run it only for a specific menu.
So to check that, we add an if condition and then get the theme location from the $args.
And as I mentioned the $args are the $args that we gave to the wp_nav_menu.
So it has the "theme_location".
So let's copy main menu and if the theme location is main menu
then we'll proceed.
Otherwise we don't need to run this to the other menus.
The second thing we need to check. We only need to add these icons for menu items that have children.
Right?
So to check that let's have another if condition.
And this will be available in the $item which is the navigation post object.
This object will have a property classes and classes will contain all the classes that are generated
for this menu item. And this will be an array of classes.
So let's check if this array has a "menu-item-has-children".
And if so we'll preceed. So to do that we'll use a function called in_array().
And this obviously checks if something exist in array so if "menu-item-has-children" exists in this array, the array
of classes then proceed.
And the last thing we need to check. We need to check if this menu item that has children has a depth of 0. So we'll add
a down icon or a depth of more than zero.
So we'll have the a direction
icon. And we already have the depth parameter here in the arguments.
So if $dept is zero we'll display the icon for the down direction icon and else the right direction
icon. So remember this is a filter.
So we have the title and we need to filter it and return it.
So the last thing is to return.
"return $title". And before returning it we can add some stuff to it.
So let's add the icon.
So $title and then append the icon to it.
And then icon is an I tag.
with a class "fa fa-angle-down". And for accessibility also
icons are often given "aria-hidden="true"".
And then close the I tag. And the same for the right.
icon. We'll just need to change the class which is "right", "angle-right".
So let's see now.
And we now have or down icon and our right icon. And it's not properly styled for a reason.
You'll see why later.
So I think now we're ready to create a mega menu which is simpler than you expects.
And then we finally do the accessibility thing.
So see you in the next section.